## Thursday, February 21, 2013

## microwave to generate scaffolding

A `aws.yml` file contains the access and secret keys.  Wanted to
generate a `aws.txt` file for Cloud Formation using `aws.yml` which
should have been an easy yaml load and merge with an erb template.

I used microwave to generate aws.txt with chef cookbooks.  The overhead
amounted to an empty `etc/chef/solo.rb` to silence warnings, a fake file
for the dna: `-j <(echo '{"run_list":["awsme"]}')`, and the `awsme`
cookbook, which was simply attributes, templates, and recipes.  Could
have used `chef` or `microwave`.

It'd be nice if all the overhead and structure could collapse into a
single file, with a `#!/usr/bin/env microwave` and chef resources as the
script.  You could pass in dns to override defaults.  I think this is
what I mean when I created the git repo placeholder for `takeout`.

## cloud formation and auto scaling cli tools

Added cloud formation and auto scaling cli tools to `awsme` but couldn't
link them from `vendor/projects/` to  `install` because they both had a
path collision `bin/service`.  No big deal but I had to hardcode their
directory names.

I can git clone `awsme`, configure `config/aws.yml` with my credentials,
run `bin/setu projects`, and then `bin/shell` will run microwave,
install a Python virtualenv, and bundle Ruby gems, with the right
environment variables to run the various official AWS tools.

## tvd-gollum

Got a `gollum` tvdinner working.  The repo can use itself, and I've
embedded it into my `home` project, too.  I'm happy how this turned out.

## I'm a terrible programmer

I spent a few years writing Capistrano and Chef ruby scripts, which
worked for its time, with some neat features.  I did it with sweat and
enthusiasm but I knew it was bad code because I'd look at the Vagrant
source, seen how you should arrange plugins, etc.

Someone's no doubt redone my scripts in a couple months since I've left.
If they open source it, I'll use it.  I'll use anything nice and
available.  I can't write nice stuff on my own, not from scratch at
least.

You still need someone like me on the team because someone who can
program better than me should be working on product.  I can glue things
together, make things work with minimal probing (of humans).  This gets
repeated up and down, each to his own level of skill.

## emulating good design

If I can structure my ruby programs like Vagrant where there's lots of
plugins, middleware, lots of modules and files that do one thing very
well and are easy to compose, I can limit how crappy monolithic scriptly
my projects get.

Also learn how to name things.
