## Wednesday, February 20, 2013

## diffable json/yaml

Across different processes and inputs, a hash serialized into json/yaml
won't be suitable for committing into a git repo with sensible diffs.
In `whatever` I wrote four dumb scripts that operate on stdin/stdout:
json2json, json2yaml, yaml2yaml, yaml2json, which is supposed to run
through a bunch of files, load them into memory and emit them with
sorted keys.  Makes it easy to keep track of build artifacts, know
what's changed, and to run tests.

## chef 11

Merged chef 11.4.0 into microwave and found much breakage under
chef-solo, mostly because my cookbooks were bad.  The things I had to
fix:

- node_path is gone so jave to use -j to pass in initial node dns
- explicitly declare attributes as default, normal, or override
- declare cookbook dependencies in metadata.rb
- ensure each recipe had an attributes pair
- ensure cookbooks are loaded by being listed in run_list
- identify recipes that are just used for include_recipe

I'm pleased the breaking changes in chef 11 will make my cookbooks more
like libraries than scripts.  This means microwave tvdinners (cookbooks
as gems) will look more like software components.  Anything to get away
from a monolithic chef repo.

## updated tvdinners: alpha_omega, runit, unicorn

Working on a `gollum` service (which will be put into a gem named
tvd-gollum) that runs under `unicorn`, managed by `runit`, and
eventually deployable by `alpha_omega`, with `microwave` (`chef` 11
fork) assembling all the moving parts.  This should work without root,
anchored to a release directory, on OS X and Ubuntu.
