## Tuesday, February 19, 2013

Decided I'd write a post everyday I did something cool at my desk, get
into a habit of writing, similar to a resolve to commit things in my
$HOME directory to GitHub.  I write a lot of code but barely any
documentation (and don't ask me about tests).

This repo, alien, is a basic ghp (git home page) project that generates
a static site and publishes to GitHub Pages.  This article is published
using a bunch of custom tools:

    new article
    vi content/articles/20130219.md
    build site
    publish site
    git sync --all

## awsme

The new job is 100% on ec2 but the build tools had a lot of hardcoded
strings and didn't deal with setup.  `awsme` brings the `ec2/ami` cli
tools, the new `aws` Python tool, and the ruby `aws-sdk` library together
with a single credentials configuration file in `config/aws.yml`.

The `ec2/ami` tools are wrapped so I can automatically supply credentials
and echo the commands.  You supply the binaries in `vendor/projects` and
then run `bin/setup projects` for the wrappers into `install/`

The `aws` Python is vendored into `vendor/cache/pip/` with a
`virtualenv` configuration that doesn't require network access.  It's
useful enough that I created a project `puddle`, a Python "bundler" of
sorts.

## Miscellaneous scripts

Split out miscellaneous scripts from my `home` project into `whatever`,
seeding it with my `talign` script that formats input into columns
(useful for `df` output).  I'll be add json and yaml stable sort
formatters, soon.

## Miscellaneous notes

I used Dropbox to sync text notes but this felt wrong.  To my `paul`
project I added `git gist` which lets me list gists:

    git gist destructuring

Then I can use an egrep-compatible regex to narrow the list to one item,
and it gets cloned:

    git gist destructuring notes

## tome

Packages that start services and provide configuration files conflict
with config management because you have two sources of truth for what is
run and written.  `tome`, which I came across while reading about
lobotomy, means to cut, and is a top-level project about Ubuntu packages
that have startup scripts and config files surgically removed; the
package is sewn together and hopefully adjusts to its new managed
environment.

There are lots of smaller ideas for tools to support `tome` because
things like the Debian package format and `reprepro` are crazy arcane.
