## Monday, February 25, 2013

## privilege package and service resources

As microwave is run as non-root in most applications, how does it
install packages and restart services?  Since package and service
resources call `aptitude` and `service`, why not enhance them to run
under sudo, and white list the packages and services that an application
can affect?

## managing secrets

My `gandalf` project is a gpg wrapper to manage various bundles with
varying levels of access.  It is used to manage personal secrets as well
as shared company passwords among different departments.

A flow for an external contractor assumes a bundle named `contractors`.
The secrets are stored in a private git repo, which they can clone
because they are also in a contractors' team on GitHub with RO access.

The contractor runs `bin/new key email@domain.com`, adds their new gpg
public key, and makes a pull request.  Admin merges the pull request and
re-encrypts the contractors bundle, which the contractor can now
decrypt.

`gandalf` doesn't solve the problem of changing passwords when an admin
leaves, but at least you can easily remove his access and re-encrypt the
new passwords.

## conf.d style configuration

Had to add a site to a brand new nginx, so dropped it into `conf.d`
directory and symlinked it into an activations directory.  If apps
generated their own nginx configuration, the activations directory could
directly link to the apps.  Combined with the sudo service resources,
microwaved apps can minimize going into root territory and generate
files that are used by containers, whether it's Ubuntu root or OS X
user.

## first time pair programming 

By pair programming, I mean two people with one screen, one keyboard,
working on an issue.  As the noob, I followed the driver implementing an
nginx maintenance page.  I spent most of my time discussing the
requirements and implications of the chosen implementation.  Having two
minds think about these things catches a lot of errors, and serves as a
sort of QA.  Both of us left with an understanding how why we chose the
implementation and all the problems/tradeoffs left behind.  I could
easily have spent 2x the time my myself just figuring things out.

## conventions for configuring a utility

My utilities are anchored wherever they are checked out, calling this
`$shome`.  Some projects are easy and configuration is relative to
`$shome`.  Thus you git clone a project and start editing in that
project.

Other projects can meant to be used with configuration stored elsewhere.
How to make it simple to use for a user and easy to maintain for a
developer?

The user git clones a project to a location, call it `$shome`.  The
configuration is relative to `$HOME`.  To source the project's bash
profile, use `source $shome/libexec/_project ${PROJECT_ROOT:-$HOME}`,
the `$HOME` part configures the base directory for configuration.

In `_project`, initialize a PROJECT_ROOT variable like:

    if [[ "$#" > 0 && -n "${PROJECT_ROOT:-}" ]]; then
      PROJECT_ROOT="$1"; shift
    else
      PROJECT_ROOT="$(cd -P -- "$(dirname -- "${BASH_SOURCE}")/.." && pwd -P)"
    fi  

    export PROJECT_ROOT

The project can source the same `_profile` with `source $shome
"${PROJECT_ROOT:-$shome}"`.  This lets the project default to `$shome`
if nothing has already configured the project.

Scripts shoudl access `$PROJECT_ROOT` for relocatable resources like
configuration files.  Otherwise `$shome` is the root of the project and
using it to fully qualify your paths means projects can be anchored
anywhere in the file system, and even have multiple instances.

