## Tuesday, February 26, 2013

## tvdinner testing

Including `chefspec`, `food critic`, and `minitest-chef-handler` in the
tvdinner recommendation.  `chefspec` is quick mocks to validate chef
resources have the right attributes.  For heavier tests,
`minitest-chef-handler` can be run in `ci` and test actual side effects.
`food critic` needs ruby 1.9 but can also quickly run in parallel with
`chefspec`.

## generating parts of a file

`conf.d` style is easiest for constructing parts of a configuration but
sometimes you have to modify a section or the container.  Sections are
easy, just surround the part with begin and end comments.  Containers
are trickier since their comments temporarily consome original content
and then spit it back out.  The two styles can be combined!

## monitoring runit services

If you have several runit services, say resque workers, you could run a
runit service that monitors the others.  It knows how to enumerate based
on name, can find the pid.  It should even be able to use remove or add
more workers.  It'd be easy to disable services and monitor at once
with a grouping naming scheme.

## lightweight monitoring agents

I like agents that collect data and forward to a central host.  It can
also receive simple commands.  The central host is the big beast that
can run anything it wants to calculate a response, and dispatches orders
to the agents.  Erlang sounds like a good fit here.

## deploying cookbooks to newly provisioned machines

On ec2 and vagrant (virtualbox), it's easy to spin up an instance,
insert an ssh key, and wait for the ip address to come up for ssh
access.  After this ssh bootstrap, a machine can be configured with chef
by deploying the cookbooks to the instance like an application.

