## Wednesday, February 27, 2013

## using the same bootstrap on vagrants

I use the same short bootstrap on vagrant as I do on ec2.  There's
additional setup for a virtualbox environment for guest additions and
making network work.  Turns out I don't need cloud-init images so Ubuntu
Cloud Images for vagrant may not be worth the beta nature, but it sure
beats building my own boxes from scratch.  I will continue to maintain
those scripts since you should never lose basic capability.

## rvm deb packages

Found an Ubuntu rvm deb package, somewhat old since rvm changes so much.
Once `tome` is started, rvm will be the first thing that gets regular
updates as debs.

## quitting linkedin

LinkedIn sends me emails with subscribe links that require login.  I
will cancel accounts with companies that do scummy things like that.
Also, LinkedIn is not how you get jobs.

## stable chef logs

When enumerating a hash, the keys order is not stable (even in 1.9 I
don't now what their defintion of stable order is) so always sort the
hash before generating resources.  It'll execute resources in the same
order and make comparing chef logs easier.

Diffing a few differences in chef logs is a cheap way to verify your
chef changes.  Expecting nginx mods but also seeing ssh keys changing?
Better check that out.

## package resource slow

Why is the package provider on Ubuntu slow?  It better not be installing
anything again and again.  On Solaris, packaging listing was crazy slow.
Maybe it's something like that.

## nginx proxy to spin up ec2 clusters

Say you have twenty staging environments for teams, individuals, and
various testing environments.  If they spun down during non-core hours,
you can still have them automatically spin up if someone visits a
website.  It's better than getting no response and logging into a shell
to run some commands.  I got the idea from a web proxy that spun up an
Erlang instance for every request.

## polling for state change

WIth ec2 and vagrant, I have to poll for machine state and tcp port
readiness (ssh, http).  Seems like there's set of bash functions to help

## flock

flock is neat, use it to ensure only one process is running.  Needs
monitoring around stale locks, though.

## git upstream branch tracking

Make sure `git push` only pushes one branch, and that local and remote
branch names match.  A git prompt should detect when the remote does not
match local; also detect if the git push tracking policy may push all
branches -- who does that?

## tail with a toc

If tailing a file was fed into a specialize program that looked for
markers, like `### initializing disks`, those markers could be a textual
progress list on the left column, while the right had the tailed logs.
It'd look like comments to a plain tail.
